Terminal Navigation: Questions to Answer

What is the difference between / and ~? What do we call each of these directories?

/ is the root directory while ~ is the home directory, or the directory for your user account. / is a level above ~.

What command do we use to change directories?

cd will change directories.

What is the difference between an absolute and relative path?

An absolute path lists the entire trail that leads to the directory you want, starting with /, the root. A relative path is relative to where you are currently. It assumes you are just tacking on more folder(s) after the path of the current directory.

_____

Working with Files & Folders: Exercises

-Create a file called name.txt.

touch name.txt

-Try renaming the file to rename.txt using the mv command. What does this tell you about the command?

mv name.txt rename.txt
If you don't want to move the file anywhere, you can just rename it in its current directory.

-Using the cp command, make a copy of rename.txt and call it copy.txt.

cp rename.txt copy.txt

-Remove the file copy.txt.

rm copy.txt

-Create a folder called questions.

mkdir questions

-Change directories to the questions folder.

cd questions

-Create a file called first.txt.

touch first.txt

-Create a file called second.txt.

touch second.txt

-Go back a directory and make a copy of the questions folder and call it questions_copy.

cd ..
cp -r questions questions_copy

-When using cp -r what is the -r called? What does it do?

The -r is a flag. It passes options to the command.

-Delete the original questions folder and the copy.

rm -rf questions
rm -rf questions_copy

_____

Terminal Basics Exercises


Write the following terminal commands to perform the following tasks:

Part I
make a directory called first
change directory to the first folder
create a file called person.txt
change the name of person.txt to another.txt
make a copy of the another.txt file and call it copy.txt
remove the copy.txt file
make a copy of the first folder and call it second
delete the second folder

Part II
What does the man command do? Type in man rm. How do you scroll and get out?
Look at the man page for ls. What does the -l flag do? What does the -a flag do?
Type the following command to download and save the contents of google.com: curl https://www.google.com > google.html
Use less to look at the contents of google.html.
Look at the man page for less. Read the section on /pattern. Search for the text hplogo in the google.html file.
How do you jump between words in the terminal?
How do you get to the end of a line in terminal?
How do you move your cursor to the beginning in terminal?
How do you delete a word (without pressing backspace multiple times) in terminal?
What is the difference between a terminal and shell?
What is an absolute path?
What is an relative path?
What is a flag? Give three examples of flags you have used.
What do the r and f flags do with the rm command?